Important note
Avoid cycles when dealing with the from… import statement. A cycle happens when a
module script, a.py, accesses components from b.py that import resource objects from
a.py. FastAPI does not accept this scenario and will issue an error message.


One way of managing the exception-handling mechanism of your application is to apply a try-except
block to manage the return responses of your API when it encounters an exception or none. After
applying try-block, the operation should trigger a single status code, most often Status Code
200 (SC 200). The path operation of FastAPI and APIRouter has a status_code parameter
that we can use to indicate the type of status code we want to raise.


If we need each block in try-except to return their respective status code, we need to avoid
using the status_code parameter of the path operations and use JSONResponse instead.


Another way of managing possible errors is by letting the REST API throw the HTTPException
object. HTTPException is a FastAPI class that has required constructor parameters: detail,
which needs an error message in the str type, and status_code, which asks for a valid integer
value. The detail part is converted to JSON-type and returned to the user as a response after the
HTTPException instance is thrown by the operation.
To throw HTTPException, a validation process using any variations of if statements is more
appropriate than using the try-except block because the cause of the error needs to be identified
before throwing the HTTPException object using the raise statement. Once raise is executed,
the whole operation will halt and send the HTTP error message in JSON-type to the client with the
specified status code.


Having model objects with non-JSON-friendly components in FastAPI-related operations
can cause serious exceptions. To avoid these Pydantic validation issues, it is always advisable to use
jsonable_encoder() to manage the conversion of all the attributes of our model object into
JSON-types.
The json module with its dumps() and loads() utility methods can be used instead of
jsonable_encoder() but a custom JSON encoder should be created to successfully map
the UUID type, the formatted date type, and other complex attribute types to str.


Transactions such as logging, SMTP-/FTP-related requirements, events, and some database-
related triggers are the best candidates for background jobs.
Important Note
Clients will always get their response from the REST API method despite the execution time
of the background task. Background tasks are for processes that will take enough time that
including them in the API operation could cause performance degradation.


To improve performance, you can add more threads within the uvicorn thread pool by including
the --workers option when running the server. Indicate your preferred number of threads after
calling the option:
uvicorn main:app --workers 5 --reload